# 07: DO NOT put water on a LiPo fire!
Why: There’s a hole in the West Clermont Gym now.

> [!CAUTION]
> This is the most important commandment. Do not skip this section. Failure to abide by this commandment may result in serious injury or death.

LiPo fires are extremely dangerous. Use a class B fire extinguisher (Dry Chemical/BC or ABC) to put them out. These are effective for electrolyte fires (Such as a LiPo fire) and are common for a reason.  I keep one nearby at all times while working on bots for this reason and know how to use it.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> ## How to use a fire extinguisher
> - Pull the pin and hold the extinguisher upright
> - Aim at the base of the fire
> - Squeeze and hold down the lever
> - Sweep from side to side

> [!TIP]
> Check the health of your extinguisher every month. Replace the extinguisher if the gauge reads “empty” or if it's past the manufacturer’s service life (~10-12 years).

> [!WARNING]
> Lithium metal fires (the metal itself reacting, possibly with water) require a Class D extinguisher. These are rare.
> DO NOT POUR WATER ON A LIPO FIRE. Water can react with the lithium.
> Water + alkali metals (lithium, sodium, etc.) can be explosive.
> Lithium smoke is toxic.

# If no class B or D extinguisher is present, you cannot extinguish the fire, or if you’re unsure on what to do:
**Evacuate the area immediately.**

**Call 911.**

**Warn others and keep a safe distance.**

> [!CAUTION]
> **DO NOT POUR WATER ON THE FIRE.** 
>**DO NOT ATTEMPT TO SMOTHER THE FIRE.**
